*Commonalities Meeting Minutes, 1st June 2023*

## Attendees

| Name | Company |
| ---- | ------- |
|Rubén Barrado Gonzalez| Telefonica|
|José Ordoñez-Lucena| Telefonica|
|Diego Gonazalez Martinez| Telefonica|
|Jesus Garcia Oliva| Telefonica|
|Jorge Garcia Hospital| Telefonica|
|Toyeeb Rehman| GSMA|
|Lyle Bertz | TMUS |
|Murat Karabulut |TMUS|
|Tanja De Groot| Nokia|
|Rajat Kondoi |	Ericsson|
|Eric Murray |	Vodafone|
|Ludovic Robert|Orange | 
|Jyrki Penttinen|Syniverse |
|Ramesh Shanmugasundaram | Spry Fox Networks|
|Randy Levensalor| CableLabs  |
|Daniel Okonkwo| | 
|Fabrizio Moggio | TIM |
|Toshi Wakayama| KDDI |
|Gail Hodges| OpenID Foundation|
|Bjorn Hjelm | OpenID Foundation|
|Rafal Artych | Deutsche Telekom | 
|Herbert Damker| Deutsche Telekom | 
|Shilpa Padgaonkar|  Deutsche Telekom |
|Dawid Wróblewski| Deutsche Telekom |


## Agenda

* **Discussion between CAMARA and the OpenID Foundation**

*OIDF (Bjorn Hjelm, Gail Hodges) provided a brief on current standards and strategic projects underway at OIDF. They also proposed how the Foundation might be able to assist in closing gaps in specifications, gaps in interfaces between specifications, profiles specific to CAMARA requirement, test development, certification support, interoperability testing support, and interoperability with other projects outside of CAMARA’s scope. This was followed with an open discussion on the OIDF standards (like OpenID Connect) already selected by CAMARA, and others that may be worth an exploration by the CAMARA participants. The presentation has been adedd here https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/SupportingDocuments/OIDF-CAMARA%20Project%20Presentation%20Jun%201%202023.pptx*

* **Review of issues and PRs**
* **AOB**


| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
|OpenID Foundation|  Presentation file is available in [Supporting Documents](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/SupportingDocuments/OIDF-CAMARA%20Project%20Presentation%20Jun%201%202023.pptx) |
| Issue [#61](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/61) | Test cases for Camara APIs - waiting for feedback for the proposal to limit API readiness criterion to Gherkin .feature file within the main subproject to comply to the API minimum readiness checklist document|
| Issue [#139](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/139) | Issue to discuss [API Readiness Checklist](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/API-Readiness-Checklist.md)  planned for the next Commonalities call |
| Issue [#170](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/170) | version number on API Design Guidelines - several proposals in discussion on how to deliverables in commonalities can be versioned/referenced/reused by other subprojects. Feedback for proposals are expected.|



## AOB

Next meeting will take place on 15th of June.
Fabrizio Moggio will present in the next commonalities meeting to propose changes to the API minimum readiness criteria checklist.
