*Commonalities Meeting Minutes, 18th May 2023*

## Attendees

| Name | Company |
| ---- | ------- |
|Rubén Barrado Gonzalez| Telefonica|
|José Ordoñez-Lucena| Telefonica|
|Jorge Garcia Hospital| Telefonica|
|Toyeeb Rehman| GSMA|
|Murat Karabulut |TMUS|
|Tanja De Groot| Nokia|
|Dawid Wróblewski| Deutsche Telekom | 
|Rafal Artych | Deutsche Telekom | 




## Agenda

* **PRs to be merged**:
  - **API guidelines to add subscription/notification/event**
  - **API guidelines - OAS version**
* **Review of issues**
* **AOB**

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| PR [#173](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/173)| Jose added [comment](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/173#issuecomment-1553094711) and proposed applying versioning of Design Guidelines with this PR - see issue [#170](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/170). Possible merging to be agreed with Ludovic by 22.05.2023.    |
|PR [#214](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/214)|Can be merged|
|Issue [#212](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/212)|POST or GET to retrieve network information - interesting comments added | 
|Issue [#208](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/208)|Changelog standards - waiting for feedback from the author|
|Issue [#200](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/200)|Existing API standards inside CAMARA - Dawid presented the issue. Agreement on staying with CAMARA flavour of respective APIs. Issue should be considered by Governance WG and Steering Committee|
|Issue [#197](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/197)| Security section in Guidelines contradiction - [PR#216](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/216) proposed to solve this issue|
|Issue [#196](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/196)|SI units to be specified for data - waiting for feedback from [DeviceLocation](https://github.com/camaraproject/DeviceLocation/issues/52) subproject|
|Issue [#178](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/178) | Multiple endpoints or multiple API - good summary included - proposition to convert issue to discussions|
|Issue [#170](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/170) | Version number on API Design Guidelines - PR expected from Telefonica|
|Issue [#139](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/139) | Issue has been reopened to discuss [API Readiness Checklist](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/API-Readiness-Checklist.md) |
|Issue [#61](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/61) | Test cases for Camara APIs - waiting for feedback from QoD subproject: https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/134. Comments and reviews are appreciated |

## Issues that can be closed
[#184](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/184) - automatically

[#177](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/177) - no further discussion


## Issues proposed to be converted to discussions
[#178](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/178)

## PRs that can be merged

PR [#214](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/214) 


## AOB

Next meeting will take place on 1st of June.
Presentation of OpenID Foundation for CAMARA is planned for that call - more details will follow on mailing lists (including Identity and Consent Management subproject)
