# Commonalities meeting
#### _9th of February 2022_
## Attendees

- José Antonio Ordoñez-Lucena (Telefónica)
- Ruben Barrado Gonzalez (Telefónica)
- Petar Torre (Intel)
- Sylvain Morel (Orange)
- Mbengue Assane Niang (Orange)
- Olivier Mathieu  (Orange)
- Jan Friman (Ericsson)
- Toshiyasu Wakayama (KDDI)
- Shahram Mohajeri (AT&T)
- Shilpa Padgaonkar (DT)

## Agenda

-  Recap
-  Contributions:
    -   Feedback on the submitted API documentation template
    -   Updates from contributors, status of deliverables
-  Any other open points

## Discussion
Agenda Item |  Description
---- |  ----
**Last meeting recap** |  &nbsp;
&nbsp; | Please use  [_**GitHub issues**_](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Acommonalities) as a mean to review or verify the status of each deliverable<br/>(**Hint**: filter by using _commonalities_ label to list only workgroup issues)
&nbsp;  | Recently closed issues: <br/>* Issue #27 - API exposure reference solution (TEF) closed and ready for review - thank you!
&nbsp;  | Review phase timeline: <br/>* Every review will have dedicated GitHub issue. <br/> * Every _review issue_ will be open for a duration of approximately **3-4 weeks**.<br/>* *If* there are no further comments during the above period we consider the document as **_final_** and **_accepted_** by the working group. <br/>* A reminder for input will be sent by e-mail (one week before planned closing of the review issue).
&nbsp;  | Latest documents are available for review under the [Deliverables](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/tree/main/WorkingGroups/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables) directory.
&nbsp;
**Contributions ready for review** 
&nbsp;_closing review_ | The [API documentation template](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/blob/main/WorkingGroups/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/API-DocumentationTemplate.md) draft uploaded by DT on Dec 15, [Camara issue GitHub #23](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/23).<br/> * Orange proposal incorporated <br/> * AT&T, Intel comment: please add authorization description <br/> * final review to be closed during the next Commonalites call
&nbsp;_closing review_ | [User stories template](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/blob/main/WorkingGroups/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/Userstory-template.md) draft uploaded by TEF on Jan 18, [GitHub issue #31](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/31).<br/> * reviewed in the issue discussion by DT until now, acceptance criteria and NFR as optional raw comment: to be analyzed internally by TEF<br/> * final review to be closed during the next Commonalites call
&nbsp; | API  readiness criteria checklist (DT) - draft uploaded by DT on Jan 26, [GitHub issue #35](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/35).<br/> * TEF review, dependence on #23 and implementation
&nbsp;_NEW entry_ | API exposure reference solution (TEF) - new document for review (Feb 4), [GitHub issue #41](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/41).<br/> * this is not a mandatory Camara guideline: it is a TEF proposal for partners interested in examples of exposing with CAPIF <br/>* implementation has been done by TEF <br/>* each partner can have its own implementation of GW <br/>* the solution is generic, compatible with other APIs, e.g. 3GPP, TMForum etc. and can be applied at Service API level
&nbsp;
**Contributions in progress** 
&nbsp;_In development_ |[General principles doc #29](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/29) <br/>Estimated timeline - end of February (TEF).
&nbsp;_In development_ |[Authentication and authorization concept #25](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/25) status:<br/>work in progress, to be prepared before next meeting.
&nbsp;_In development_  | [Testing principles doc #28](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/28) <br/>Estimated timeline - beginning of March (DT).
&nbsp; |[E/// authentication scope proposal #37](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/37) <br/>Authentication scope proposal to be presented during next meeting. Possibly synergy with the authentication concept (issue #25).
&nbsp; |[Document common vocabulary and terminologies across API families => Standard resources description](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/24)<br/>This proposal has been merged with issue #24 _"Standard resource description doc"_.
&nbsp; |[E/// proposal to use GPSI as UE identifier #36](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/36) <br/> * this issue is general but has been also labeled as commonalities <br/>* please see new AT&T comment
## AOB
1.  Next commonalities meeting February 23, 2022.
