# Commonalities meeting

#### *1st of June 2022*

## Attendees

|  |
| --- |
| MOHAJERI, SHAHRAM, AT&T |
| Miguel Garcia A, Ericsson |
| Christoph Neumann, Broadpeak |
| Murray, Eric, Vodafone |
| NIETO, IVAN, Vodafone |
| Toshiyasu Wakayama, KDDI |
| Passannanti Raffaele, Telecom Italia |
| Jan Friman, Ericsson |
| Lalovic, Milan, BT, *OPAG observer* |
| MOREL Sylvain, Orange |
| Moggio Fabrizio, Telecom Italia |
| Tom van Pelt, GSMA |
| Jarzab, Marcin, DT |
| Sozan, Mariusz, DT |

## Agenda

* Recap/updates in repository
* Contributions:
    * current issues
    * reviews and feedbacks on the submitted documents
    * Updates on the status of other contributions
* Any other open points

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| **Recent updates & recap** |  |
|  | Repository structure:<br>\* Commonalities are under <i>**WorkingGroups**</i> repo: [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities)<br>\* Please use [***GitHub issues***](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Acommonalities) as a mean to review or verify the status of each deliverable. |
|  | **Repo structure of** [Commonalities/documentation](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities/documentation) (see [issue #35](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/35)):<br>\* Core documents accepted by internal reviewers are under the <b>*Deliverables*</b> directory<br>\* Documents are available for review under the <b>*Working*</b> directory<br><br>\* [Steering Committee voted to use branches instead of different sub directories](https://github.com/camaraproject/Governance/issues/47). New section will be added to [ProjectStructureAndRoles.md in Governance's repo](https://github.com/camaraproject/Governance/blob/main/ProjectStructureAndRoles.md) with a description how branches shall be used to reflect the status of an artefact.<br><br>\* [milestone #2](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/milestone/1) and [Commonalities Core Documentation](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/projects) project added to repository for better transparency |
|  | Every new document's review process will have a dedicated GitHub issue:<br>\* Every *review issue* will be open at least for a duration of **4 weeks**.<br>\* *If* there are no further comments during that period we consider the document as <b>*final*</b> and <b>*accepted*</b> by the working group. |
| *review closed* | [API Readiness](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Working/API-Readiness-Checklist.md) criteria checklist (DT) - draft uploaded by DT on Jan 26, [GitHub issue](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/35) #5<br>\* closing review: pull request has been accepted, issue closed |
|  |  |
| **Current issues** |  |
|  | [Issue #33: TMF mapping](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/33): <br>\* Orange contribution for Camara API linked to TMF API: [presentation link](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Contributions/May%2018th%20Camara%20meeting%20v2.pptx)<br>\* contribution prepared by Ludovic Robert presented during last meeting |
|  | [Issue #31: Dedicated Portal Instance for CAMARA](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/31):<br>Provide a [dedicated portal instance](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/API%20Portal%20Capabilities.pdf): a single, unified portal instance for the entire project, hosting the different APIs developed and with tools allowing for their management.<br>\* [issue #37](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/37) for portal requirements: file with the [criteria requirements' proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Working/API%20development%20portal%20requirements.md) has been created;<br> - issue to **be closed in 1 week** if no further file adjustments/comments are made.<br><br>**\* TODO: Last two weeks for investigation, please input points inside Github issue #31 (and #37 for requirements tuning)**<br> - please propose specific alternatives for the mandatory (**M**) options<br>\* vote in two weeks on a proposal |
|  | [Issue #36: Markdown instead of PDF](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/36)<br>\* MD is recommended for working with GitHub through pull requests and for version comparison<br>\* verified with authors - OK, ongoing effort |
|  |  |
| **Contributions in review** | [MILESTONE #2] |
| *in progress* | [General principles doc](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/29)<br>\* [issue #32](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/32) created on 4/4 for review purposes<br>\* ToC:<br> [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/General-principles-doc.md](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/General-principles-doc.md)<br>\* Added new subchapters proposals for Camara-specific aspects to be reflected in General principles as pull request #41:<br>-API naming convention for Camara<br>-Versioning:<br>    \* Agreement on major version<br>    \* Version change history<br>    \* Repository tagging and releases<br>    -> see [Governance issue #43](https://github.com/camaraproject/Governance/issues/43) (a release shall change the version in the API definition and documentation files in the main branch) |
| *in progress* | API exposure reference solution (TEF) - document for review (Feb 4), [GitHub issue](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/41) #1<br>\* auxiliary guideline: TEF proposal for partners interested in examples of gateway exposure with CAPIF<br>\* update: source code published from research project<br>\* action points: reformat to MD and fill in gaps in CAPIF definition - exhaustive analysis, to provide more details |
|  |  |
| **Contributions in development** |  |
|  | [Issue #26: Reference NEF](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/26):<br>For contributing code we need a reference NEF on which the code can be based. |
|  | [Testing principles doc](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/28) #8<br>draft ready, 2nd round of internal review (DT).<br>=> see AOB 3. |
|  | [Document common vocabulary and terminologies across API families => Standard resources description](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/24) WG#10<br>Proposal to assign this issue as a common working group task -> open GLOSSARY |
|  | [E/// proposal to use GPSI as UE identifier](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/36) #4<br>\* proposal's presentation has been uploaded<br>\* The proposal is to identify UEs primarily with GPSI (in any existing format either MSISDN or ext identifier) and optionally with UE IP or MAC<br>**\- add to Authentication and authorization document to limit number of papers** *[as agreed in last call]* |
|  | [E/// authorization scope proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/37) WG #3<br>Authorization scope proposal. Possibly synergy with the auth. concept (WG #27). |
|  |  |

## AOB

1. Next commonalities meeting: June 15th.
2. Welcome to OPAG representative observer: Milan Lalovic.
3. Future topic/issue on Testing FR/NFR with sample implementation