# Commonalities meeting

#### *23rd of March 2022*

## Attendees

* *Jan Friman (Ericsson)*
* *Miguel A. García-Martín (Ericsson)*
* *José Antonio Ordoñez-Lucena (Telefónica)*
* *Ruben Barrado Gonzalez (Telefónica)*
* *Kevin Smith (Vodafone)*
* *Ivan Nieto (Vodafone)*
* *Eric Murray (Vodafone)*
* *Tom van Pelt (GSMA)*
* *Marc Cornall (GSMA)*
* *Petar Torre (Intel)*
* *Olivier Mathieu  (Orange)*
* *Shahram Mohajeri (AT&T)*
* *Shilpa Padgaonkar (DT)*
* *Jarząb Marcin (DT)*

## Agenda

* Recap
* Contributions:
    * New documents for review
    * Final reviews and feedbacks on the submitted documents
    * Updates on the status of deliverables
* Any other open points

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| **Recent updates & recap** |  |
|  | Repository structure:<br>\* Commonalities are now under <i>**WorkingGroups**</i> repo: [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities) |
|  | Documents are available for review under the Deliverables directory:<br>[https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/)<br>Please use [***GitHub issues***](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Acommonalities) as a mean to review or verify the status of each deliverable. |
|  | Every new document's review process will have a dedicated GitHub issue:<br>\* Every *review issue* will be open for a duration of approximately **4 weeks**.<br>\* *If* there are no further comments during that period we consider the document as <b>*final*</b> and <b>*accepted*</b> by the working group. |
| **New issues** |  |
|  | [Issue #26: Reference NEF](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/26):<br>For contributing code we need a reference NEF on which the code can be based. Identify such a NEF for CAMARA.<br>\- Within Intel program "Smart Edge Open" a NEF complete with minimum features\, implementing API\+schema [https://www.openness.org/api-documentation/?api=nef](https://www.openness.org/api-documentation/?api=nef) , in two versions:<br>\* "Previous", Apache 2 licensed version, in public repository [https://github.com/smart-edge-open/epcforedge](https://github.com/smart-edge-open/epcforedge)<br>\* "Current", Intel-licensed version for "efforts to develop and distribute solutions running on Intel-based products", that also comes with source. Packaged binary image could be contributed to an appropriate testbed.<br>\* A straightforward docker and K8s install helper script can be shared.<br>\* If needed, Intel could consider to slightly enhance the NEF to adapt it to a potential Camara request.<br>\* Q: (DT) is there a difference between the two versions in terms of NEF implementation?<br>\- A: To be verified with Intel\, hopefully not tremendous\.<br> |
|  | [Issue #25: API versioning](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/25):<br>\* Semantic Versioning 2.0.0 is proposed to be followed<br>\* Before an API is officially approved by majority vote in the working group, the version should be < 1.0<br>\* Q: Are API minimum readiness criteria sufficient to promote a release?<br>A: (Jan, E///) Maybe for the 1st major release a vote would be necessary<br>\* API versions shall try to maintain backward compatibility:<br>\- according to RESTful principles\, the response to a deprecated API URL should indicate links where the client can go next \(Kevin\, VF\)\. |
|  |  |
| **Contributions ready for review** |  |
| *closing review* | The [API documentation template](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/API-DocumentationTemplate.md)<span class="s1">&nbsp;</span>draft uploaded by DT on Dec 15, [Camara issue GitHub](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/23) #11<br>\* Orange and AT&T proposals incorporated, waiting for confirmation from Intel<br>\* thank you for Vodafone PR and comments<br>\* The working group agreed for final review to be **closed today:** no further comments/objections |
| *closing review* | [User stories template](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/Userstory-template.md) draft uploaded by TEF on Jan 18, [GitHub issue](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/31) #6<br>\* acceptance criteria and NFR as optional <- analyzed internally by TEF<br>\* thank you for Vodafone comments and PR<br>\* The working group agreed for final review to be **closed today:** no further comments/objections |
|  | [API readiness criteria checklist](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/API-Readiness-Checklist.md) (DT) - draft uploaded by DT on Jan 26, [GitHub issue](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/35) #5<br>\* document to be reviewed until the next Commonalities meeting<br>\* pull request to be accepted<br>\- todo: verify if we have all underlying references for security & privacy principles |
|  | API exposure reference solution (TEF) - new document for review (Feb 4), [GitHub issue](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/41) #1<br>\* an auxiliary Camara guideline: it is a TEF proposal for partners interested in examples of exposing with CAPIF<br>\* update: source code published from research project<br>\* Q: (E///) is it a living document or should we approve as a stable version?<br>\- A: \(TEF\) There are other activities in 3GPP related to API exposure solutions\, to be found out if there is an overlap\. We propose to wait for 3GPP feedback\, then decide if the document is to be considered stable or a dynamic one\.<br>\* Q: it is a large doc, should we have inspections inside the document or open issues?<br>A: section 1&4 can possibly be developed in the future, rest of sections describe the state of art.<br>Probably we are going to notify changes in the document through GitHub issues anyway. |
|  | [Authentication and Authorization Concept for Service APIs](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/CAMARA-AuthN-AuthZ-Concept.md)<br>\* [issue #27 has been created](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/27) for review, please do not hesitate to post comments and reviews! |
|  |  |
| **Contributions in progress** |  |
| *In development* | [General principles doc](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/29) WG #7<br>As a first deliverable, the ToC is already available at:<br>[https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/General-principles-doc.md](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/General-principles-doc.md) |
| *In development* | [Testing principles doc](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/28) #8<br>Estimated timeline - end of March (DT). |
|  | [Document common vocabulary and terminologies across API families => Standard resources description](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/24) WG#10<br>Proposal to assign this issue as a common working group task -> open GLOSSARY |
|  |  |
| **Other issues** |  |
|  | [E/// proposal to use GPSI as UE identifier](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/36) WG issue #4<br>\* proposal's presentation has been uploaded to:<br> [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/UE%20identifiers.pptx](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/UE%20identifiers.pptx)<br>\* The proposal is to identify UEs primarily with GPSI (in any existing format either MSISDN or ext identifier) and optionally with UE IP or MAC<br>\* Positive initial <i>**feedback**</i> on the UE Identification proposal presented by E/// *in the relevant issue*, please provide further comments. |
|  | [E/// authorization scope proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/37) WG #3<br>Authorization scope proposal to be presented... Possibly synergy with the auth. concept (WG #27). |
|  | [Reference Architectures](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/13) WG #13 |
|  |  |

## AOB

1. Next commonalities meeting April 6, 2022.
2. In the next meeting:
provide a dedicated portal instance issue. An elaborated version from Telefònica for Camara will be presented.
The commonalities group will then agree if there is a need for this portal.
