# Commonalities meeting

#### *20th of April 2022*

## Attendees

* Tom van Pelt, GSMA
* Mark Cornall, GSMA
* Ruben BARRADO GONZALEZ, Telefónica
* MOREL Sylvain, Orange
* MATHIEU Olivier, Orange
* Jan Friman, Ericsson
* Miguel Garcia A, Ericsson
* Kevin Smith, Vodafone
* Eric Murray, Vodafone
* Ivan Nieto, Vodafone
* Toshiyasu Wakayama, KDDI
* Torre, Petar, Intel
* MOHAJERI, SHAHRAM, AT&T
* Mariusz Sozansk, DT

## Agenda

* Recap
* Contributions:
    * Final reviews and feedbacks on the submitted documents
    * Updates on the status of deliverables
    * New issues
* Any other open points

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| **Recent updates & recap** |  |
|  | Repository structure:<br>\* Commonalities are now under <i>**WorkingGroups**</i> repo: [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities) |
|  | Documents are available for review under the Deliverables directory:<br>[https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/)<br>Please use [***GitHub issues***](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Acommonalities) as a mean to review or verify the status of each deliverable. |
|  | Every new document's review process will have a dedicated GitHub issue:<br>\* Every *review issue* will be open at least for a duration of **4 weeks**.<br>\* *If* there are no further comments during that period we consider the document as <b>*final*</b> and <b>*accepted*</b> by the working group. |
| **Current issues** |  |
|  | [Issue #31: Dedicated Portal Instance for CAMARA](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/31):<br>Provide a [dedicated portal instance](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/API%20Portal%20Capabilities.pdf): a single, unified portal instance for the entire project, hosting the different APIs developed and with tools allowing for their management.<br>\* Q: How are Linux Foundation portals generated:<br>\- LF can assist with delegating the creation of content to a specialized company\.<br>\- see [camaraproject.org](camaraproject.org) - an initial quick contribution, to be revised with LF.<br>**\* The commonalities group is going to agree if there is a need for this portal - please put comments in the issue.**Q: what about management of the portal /DNS/resources/IDM - who would do that?<br>A: we can create a dedicated instance, but resources are needed and need a GO decision for that<br>-> Will be checked internally in Telefónica what would be the commitment level - after the DECISION<br>Q: Requirements towards an API development lifecycle for Camara - definition? Issue gives 2 in 1: req and solution.<br>Can we separate the list with requirements from instatiation of reqs?<br>A: The portal is meant to improve the lifecycle and create a single pane of glass for documentation, API specifications etc.<br>Q: Is the portal for info sharing or onboarding devs and invoke APIs?<br>A: Not for invocation of API, it is a catalogue of APIs and doc, user profiles can be created for Camara contributors |
|  | [Issue #26: Reference NEF](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/26):<br>For contributing code we need a reference NEF on which the code can be based.<br>\- Within Intel program "Smart Edge Open" a NEF complete with minimum features\, implementing API\+schema [https://www.openness.org/api-documentation/?api=nef](https://www.openness.org/api-documentation/?api=nef) , in two versions:<br>\* "Previous", Apache 2 licensed version, in public repository [https://github.com/smart-edge-open/epcforedge](https://github.com/smart-edge-open/epcforedge)<br>\* "Current", Intel-licensed version for "efforts to develop and distribute solutions running on Intel-based products".<br>\* see comment in #26, update coming in two weeks.<br>\* Assessionqos not currently implemented - to be verified<br>\* Orange is investigating this for documenting the differences in implementation by vendors with open source code and their compliance with 3gpp |
|  | [Issue #25: API versioning](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/25):<br>\* Semantic Versioning 2.0.0 is proposed to be followed<br>\* Before an API is officially approved by majority vote in the working group, the version should be < 1.0<br>\* according to RESTful principles, the response to a deprecated API URL should indicate links where the client can go next<br>\* TODO: integration into a document -> PLEASE NOTE this is already partially reflected a General Principles document, do not hesitate to comment issue #32<br>\* built-in git functionality - branch versions or tags - to be added by another contributor: any git expert? |
| *new* | [Issue #33: TMF mapping](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/33):<br>\* Orange contribution for Camara API linked to TMF API<br>\* contribution prepared by L. Robert who can present it in detail in next meeting |
| *issue to be closed soon* | [E/// proposal to use GPSI as UE identifier](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/36) WG issue #4<br>\* proposal's presentation has been uploaded to:<br> [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/UE%20identifiers.pptx](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/UE%20identifiers.pptx)<br>\* The proposal is to identify UEs primarily with GPSI (in any existing format either MSISDN or ext identifier) and optionally with UE IP or MAC<br>\* Positive initial **feedback** on the UE Identification proposal presented by E/// in the relevant issue, please provide further comments. |
| **Contributions ready for review** |  |
| *review to be closed* | [API readiness criteria checklist](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/API-Readiness-Checklist.md) (DT) - draft uploaded by DT on Jan 26, [GitHub issue](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/35) #5<br>\* document to be reviewed until the next Commonalities meeting<br>\* pull request to be accepted<br>\- todo: verify if we have all underlying references for security & privacy principles<br>\* contact the OP for accepting PR request<br>\* closing review: **last 2 weeks for acceptance**, then we will try to close the review during our next commonalities meeting |
| *review to be closed* | API exposure reference solution (TEF) - document for review (Feb 4), [GitHub issue](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/41) #1<br>\* an auxiliary Camara guideline: it is a TEF proposal for partners interested in examples of exposing with CAPIF<br>\* update: source code published from research project<br>\* **last two weeks for comments** |
| *review to be closed* | [Authentication and Authorization Concept for Service APIs](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/CAMARA-AuthN-AuthZ-Concept.md)<br>\* [issue #27 has been created](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/27) on Mar 9 for review, please do not hesitate to post comments and reviews!<br>\* last weeks for comments |
| *review loop started* | [General principles doc](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/29) <br>\* [issue #32](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/32) created on 4/4 for review purposes<br>\* the ToC is available at:<br>[https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/General-principles-doc.md](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/General-principles-doc.md) |
|  |  |
| **Contributions in progress** |  |
| *In development* | [Testing principles doc](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/28) #8<br>draft ready, in internal review (DT). |
|  | [Document common vocabulary and terminologies across API families => Standard resources description](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/24) WG#10<br>Proposal to assign this issue as a common working group task -> open GLOSSARY |
|  |  |
| **Other issues** |  |
|  | [E/// authorization scope proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/37) WG #3<br>Authorization scope proposal to be presented... Possibly synergy with the auth. concept (WG #27). |
|  | [Reference Architectures](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/13) WG #13 |
|  |  |

## AOB

1. Next commonalities meeting May 4.