<span class="colour" style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">*19th October 2022*</span>

## Attendees

| \_\_\_ |
| --- |
| Petar Torre, Intel |
| Bertz Lyle, TMUS |
| Murat Karabulut, TMUS |
| Jan Friman, Ericsson |
| Ruben Barrado Gonzalez, Telefonica |
| Mathieu Oliver, Orange |
| Robert Ludovic, Orange |
| Shilpa Padgaonkar, DT |

## Agenda

* Current ongoing reviews and issues
* Any other points

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| **Recent updates & recap** |  |
|  | Repository structure:<br>\* Commonalities are under <i>**WorkingGroups**</i> repo: [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities "https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities")<br>\* Please use [***GitHub issues***](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Acommonalities "https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Acommonalities") as a mean to review or verify the status of each deliverable. |
|  | \* Every new document's review process will have a dedicated GitHub issue<br>\* *If* there are no further comments during that period we consider the document as <b>*final*</b> and <b>*accepted*</b> by the working group. |
| **Current issues** |  |
|  | [#31](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/31 "https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/31") Dedicated portal instance for Camara<br>Use the static sheet solution for now. Revist later if cost handling issue has a solution. |
|  | [#32](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/32 "https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/32") Review general principles doc<br>Request active participation in review for [#PR72](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/72 "https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/72"). Ruben and Shilpa discussed the topic around Versioning and Ruben will udpate the doc with discussed details. |
|  | [#53](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/53 "https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/53") Consisent API onboarding process<br>Governance topic adressed in Steerco |
|  | [#57](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/57 "https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/57") API proposal pipeline from API backlog to SteerCo approval<br>[#PR77](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/77 "https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/77") API Backlog Overview Doc. Governance topic adressed in Steerco |
|  | [#60](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/60 "https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/60") User consent management<br>Request active participation in review for [#PR68](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/68 "https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/68") |
|  | [#61](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/61 "https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/61") How to contribute test cases for APIs<br>Issue to remain open to gather feedback. |
|  | [#6](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/61 "https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/61")3 Multiple ref implementations<br>To be discussed in next commonalities call |
|  | [#75](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/75 "https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/75") Timing rules for issues in commanalities<br>Proposal to be addressed in Steerco |
|  | [#87](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/87) Cleanup directories<br>To be closed soon |
|  | [#99](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/99) Dealing with multiple API related artifacts <br>New issue (as extension of #63 |
|  | [#100](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/100) Broken link in authN-authZ doc<br>new issue, will fix soon |
|  | [#101](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/101) No PII as API design criteria<br>New issue |
| Issues closed |  |
| Any other topics | 1\. PR owners requested to use milestones so that reviewers can plan accordingly<br>2\. Suggestion from Kevin to checkout "Mermaid" for including diagrams in markdown documents instead of embedding them as images<br>[https://github.blog/2022-02-14-include-diagrams-markdown-files-mermaid/](https://github.blog/2022-02-14-include-diagrams-markdown-files-mermaid/ "https://github.blog/2022-02-14-include-diagrams-markdown-files-mermaid/")<br>3\. Tools/extensions used for creating markdown documents:\- Browser\, VSCode\, VScode \+ extension Unotes |

## AOB

1. Next commonalities meeting: Nov 2nd 2022
2. Thank you!
