# Commonalities meeting

#### *18th of May 2022*

## Attendees (To be updated)

* ROBERT Ludovic, Orange
* MOREL Sylvain, Orange
* Mathieu Olivier, Orange
* Christoph Neumann, Broadpeak
* Raffaele Passannanti, Telecom Italia
* Mark Cornall, GSMA
* Tom van Pelt, GSMA
* Petar Torre, Intel
* Jan Friman, Ericsson
* Kevin Smith, Vodafone
* Eric Murray, Vodafone
* Toshiyasu Wakayama, KDDI
* MOHAJERI, SHAHRAM, AT&T
* Ruben BARRADO GONZALEZ, Telefónica
* Marius Sozans, DT

## Agenda

* Recap/updates in repository
* Contributions:
    * current issues
    * reviews and feedbacks on the submitted documents
    * Updates on the status of other contributions
* Any other open points

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| **Recent updates & recap** |  |
|  | Repository structure:<br>\* Commonalities are under <i>**WorkingGroups**</i> repo: [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities)<br>\* Please use [***GitHub issues***](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Acommonalities) as a mean to review or verify the status of each deliverable. |
|  | **Folder structure of** [Commonalities/documentation](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities/documentation) (see [issue #35](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/35)):<br>\* Core documents accepted by internal reviewers are under the <b>*Deliverables*</b> directory<br>\* Documents are available for review under the <b>*Working*</b> directory<br>\* added [milestone #2](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/milestone/1) and [Commonalities Core Documentation](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/projects) project for better transparency |
|  | Every new document's review process will have a dedicated GitHub issue:<br>\* Every *review issue* will be open at least for a duration of **4 weeks**.<br>\* *If* there are no further comments during that period we consider the document as <b>*final*</b> and <b>*accepted*</b> by the working group. |
|  |  |
| **Current issues** |  |
|  | [Issue #33: TMF mapping](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/33): <br>\* Orange contribution for Camara API linked to TMF API: [presentation link](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Contributions/May%2018th%20Camara%20meeting%20v2.pptx)<br>\* contribution prepared by Ludovic Robert presented during the meeting<br>\* Orange operates TM Forum Open API in lot of context with success and contributes to TM Forum<br>\* aim is to identify potential TMF API candidate for Camara, e.g. in API Backlog<br>\* benefits for Camara: industry standards, consistent information model, complete API ecosystem<br>\* the APIs are flexible and extensible, assets under Apache 2 license<br>\* extension & polymorphism of TMF API allow customisation and specialisation of APIs<br>\* sample candidate for QoD: TMF640 Svc act&cfg, TMF702 act&cfg - 3 sample extensions<br>\* Should we go on with TMF? Investigate with API Backlog, get contributions from TMF?<br>\* E. Murray: be aware of proprietary attributes in TMF, what do developers think of that - are TMF API that transparent/thorough enough for them?<br>\* J. Friman: TMF fit nicely for BSS/OSS functionality (south-bound), but we should raise abstraction level for the consumer of API, maybe combining more TMF APIs, transformation function utilises that. Definitely TMF is valuable, but we would to expose a small subset of capabilities.<br>\* L. Robert: we need consistency, and with TMF you have the advantage of "plug and play"<br>\* S. Mohajeri: I see TMF as a major player, but the APIs are more telecom-centric and did not get enough traction from developers |
| *Camara portal* | [Issue #31: Dedicated Portal Instance for CAMARA](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/31):<br>Provide a [dedicated portal instance](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/API%20Portal%20Capabilities.pdf): a single, unified portal instance for the entire project, hosting the different APIs developed and with tools allowing for their management.<br>\* see the new [criteria requirements proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Working/API%20development%20portal%20requirements)<br>\* [issue #37](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/37) for portal requirements has been verified - TODO: agree on requirements<br>\* **TODO**: TEF - double-check ops and maintenance <br>**\- Q1: Ready for decision? Or proceed inside Github issue \#31?**<br>\* it is worth looking at alternatives: e.g. Postman Ent. as a LCM may be more familiar to API developers<br><br>**Workgroup decision: investigate further and set requirements** |
|  | [Issue #36: Markdown instead of PDF](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/36)<br>\* to be verified with authors<br>\* MD is recommended for working with GitHub through pull requests and for version comparison |
|  |  |
| **Contributions in review** | [MILESTONE #2] |
| *review to be closed* | [API Readiness](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Working/API-Readiness-Checklist.md) criteria checklist (DT) - draft uploaded by DT on Jan 26, [GitHub issue](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/35) #5<br>\* closing review: pull request has been accepted, issue closed |
| *in progress* | API exposure reference solution (TEF) - document for review (Feb 4), [GitHub issue](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/41) #1<br>\* auxiliary guideline: TEF proposal for partners interested in examples of gateway exposure with CAPIF<br>\* update: source code published from research project<br>\* action points: reformat to MD and fill in gaps in CAPIF definition - exhaustive analysis, to provide more details |
| *in progress* | [General principles doc](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/29)<br>\* [issue #32](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/32) created on 4/4 for review purposes<br>\* ToC:<br> [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/General-principles-doc.md](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/General-principles-doc.md)<br>\* TODO: expand **API versioning** (from [Issue #25](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/25)) and add API naming standard |
|  |  |
| **Contributions in development** |  |
|  | [Issue #26: Reference NEF](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/26):<br>For contributing code we need a reference NEF on which the code can be based. |
|  | [Testing principles doc](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/28) #8<br>draft ready, 2nd round of internal review (DT). |
|  | [Document common vocabulary and terminologies across API families => Standard resources description](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/24) WG#10<br>Proposal to assign this issue as a common working group task -> open GLOSSARY |
|  | [E/// proposal to use GPSI as UE identifier](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/36) #4<br>\* proposal's presentation has been uploaded<br>\* The proposal is to identify UEs primarily with GPSI (in any existing format either MSISDN or ext identifier) and optionally with UE IP or MAC<br>**\- add to Authentication and authorization document to limit number of papers** *[as agreed in last call]* |
|  | [E/// authorization scope proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/37) WG #3<br>Authorization scope proposal. Possibly synergy with the auth. concept (WG #27). |
|  |  |

## AOB

1. Next commonalities meeting: June 1st.