# Commonalities meeting

#### *23rd of February 2022*

## Attendees

* Jan Friman (Ericsson)
* Miguel A. García-Martín (Ericsson)
* Thomas Vits (MobiledgeX)
* Kevin Smith (Vodafone)
* José Antonio Ordoñez-Lucena (Telefónica)
* Ruben Barrado Gonzalez (Telefónica)
* Shilpa Padgaonkar (DT)
* Mariusz Sozański (DT)

## Agenda

* Recap
* Contributions:
    * Ericsson proposal to use GPSI as UE id
    * Final reviews and feedbacks on the submitted documents
    * Updates on the status of deliverables
* Any other open points

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| **Recent updates & recap** |  |
| *NEW address!* | NEW repository structure:<br>\* the steering committee decided to move the working groups and QOD API subproject to separate repositories<br>\* Commonalities are now in <i>**WorkingGroups**</i> repo: [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities)<br>\* new organisation of directories |
|  | Documents are available for review under the Deliverables directory - **new address**:<br>[https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/)<br>Please use [***GitHub issues***](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Acommonalities) as a mean to review or verify the status of each deliverable. |
|  | Every new document's review process will have a dedicated GitHub issue:<br>\* Every *review issue* will be open for a duration of approximately **3-4 weeks**.<br>\* *If* there are no further comments during that period we consider the document as <b>*final*</b> and <b>*accepted*</b> by the working group. |
|  |  |
| **New Contribution** |  |
|  | [E/// proposal to use GPSI as UE identifier #36](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/36) -> WorkGroups' (WG) issue #4<br>\* proposal's presentation has been uploaded to:<br> [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/UE%20identifiers.pptx](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/UE%20identifiers.pptx)<br>\* The proposal is to identify UEs primarily with GPSI (in any existing format either MSISDN or ext identifier) and optionally with UE IP or MAC<br>\* Presentation discussion:<br><ul><li>DT:Does&nbsp;Nnef-UEId handle NaTed IPs?&nbsp; E///: 3GPP does not include NATed IPs in scope for&nbsp;Nnef-UEId by default, maybe some other protocols can indirectly address this</li><li>TEF:&nbsp; Taking the gaming use case as an example: PDU session between UE and 3rd party app. In the European Union if subscriber has direct subscription with a platform it is ok;&nbsp;but if the contract is signed only with Telco and&nbsp; AF provider for (eg.gaming platform) - 3rd party shall not have access to MSISDN. Would the GPSI in its external identifier form be a solution to this problem? E///: yes, 3GPP has considered the privacy aspect and the external identifier format was crafted for this scenario</li><li>Vodafone: Will Nnef-UEId work where the IP address is obtained using solutions such as Apple private relay? E///: Multiple IP translations, intermediate gateways can certainly cause issue as it no more reflects the real UE IP address.</li><li>DT: If the service APIs rely on an underlying NEF API (like the QoD API) and the underlying NEF API does not offer the possibility to provide the GPSI option, it would increase the complexity of the service API, as it would need to translate the GPSI to IP. Is there an intention to add this GPSI also to the underlying NEF APIs. E///:&nbsp; Yes, most of the NEF APIs&nbsp; would eventually evolve to accept the GPSI option. If Camara members agree to use the GPSI as an accepted option in APIs for UE identification(in addition to already existing ones like IP etc..), E/// can then also proactively drive this requirement in 3GPP.</li><li>DT: This presentation addresses the UE identification part. The original proposal also touched aspects of UE authorization. Should we park this question in the backlog?&nbsp; E///: Yes, UE authorization topic is a relevant discussion. We do not have a proposal currently to suggest a way ahead. Hopefully we can have more discussions on this in Camara and eventually one of the members can come up with a proposal to present on this topic.</li><li>TEF: What options we can use for solutions compliant with Release 15 as we need to ensure that we can also test and validate things?&nbsp;E///: True, the GPSI ext identifier format was only introduced as a part of Release 17.</li><li>DT: Hopefully all Camara members can <b>*provide feedback*</b> on the very useful UE Identification proposal presented by E/// <b>*in the relevant issue*</b>, so that we can track all the feedbacks/suggestions.</li></ul> |
|  |  |
| **Contributions ready for review** |  |
| *closing review* | The [API documentation template](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/API-DocumentationTemplate.md)<span class="s1">&nbsp;</span>draft uploaded by DT on Dec 15, [Camara issue GitHub #23](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/23) -> WG #11<br>\* Orange and AT&T proposals incorporated, waiting for confirmation from Intel<br>\* The working group agreed for final review to be **closed this week** if no further comments/objections appear under GitHub issues |
| *closing review* | [User stories template](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/Userstory-template.md) draft uploaded by TEF on Jan 18, [GitHub issue #31](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/31) -> WG #6.<br>\* acceptance criteria and NFR as optional <- analyzed internally by TEF<br>\* The working group agreed for final review to be **closed this week** if no further comments/objections appear under GitHub issues |
|  | [API readiness criteria checklist](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/API-Readiness-Checklist.md) (DT) - draft uploaded by DT on Jan 26, [GitHub issue #35](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/35) -> WG #5<br>\* document to be reviewed until the next Commonalities meeting |
|  | API exposure reference solution (TEF) - new document for review (Feb 4), [GitHub issue #41](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/41) -> WG #1<br>\* an auxiliary Camara guideline: it is a TEF proposal for partners interested in examples of exposing with CAPIF<br>\* recently updated (Feb 15) |
|  |  |
| **Contributions in progress** |  |
| *In development* | [General principles doc #29](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/29) -> WG #7<br>Estimated timeline - end of February (TEF). |
| *In development* | [Authentication and authorization concept #25](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/25) -> WG #9<br>\* draft almost ready, to be published before next meeting |
| *In development* | [Testing principles doc #28](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/28) -> WG #8<br>Estimated timeline - March (DT). |
|  | [Document common vocabulary and terminologies across API families => Standard resources description](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/24) -> WG#10<br>This proposal has been merged with *"Standard resource description doc"* issue. |
|  | [E/// authorization scope proposal #37](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/37) -> WG #3<br>Authorization scope proposal to be presented... Possibly synergy with the auth. concept (WG #9). |
|  | [Reference Architectures](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/13)<span class="js-issue-title markdown-title" style="box-sizing: border-box;">&nbsp;-&gt; WG #13</span> |
|  |  |

## AOB

1. Next commonalities meeting March 9, 2022.
