# Commonalities Meeting

*05th October 2022*
<br>
## Attendees

| \_\_\_ |
| --- |
| Petar Torre, Intel |
| Ramesh Shanmugasundaram, Spryfoxnetworks |
| Mohajeri Shahram, AT&T |
| Ivan Nieto, Vodafone |
| Kevin Smith, Vodafone |
| Eric Murray, Vodafone |
| Jan Friman, Ericsson |
| Ruben Barrado Gonzalez, Telefonica |
| Jesus Iglesias Maqueda, Telefonica |
| Mathieu Oliver, Orange |
| Shilpa Padgaonkar, DT |

## Agenda

* New repo cleanup and [structure](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/README.MD#repository-structure)
* Current ongoing reviews and issues
* Any other points

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| **Recent updates & recap** |  |
|  | Repository structure:<br>\* Commonalities are under <i>**WorkingGroups**</i> repo: [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities)<br>\* Please use [***GitHub issues***](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Acommonalities) as a mean to review or verify the status of each deliverable. |
|  | \* Every new document's review process will have a dedicated GitHub issue<br>\* *If* there are no further comments during that period we consider the document as <b>*final*</b> and <b>*accepted*</b> by the working group. |
| **Current issues** |  |
|  | [#27](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/27) Review of updated AuthN-AuthZ update.<br>Request active participation in review for [#PR80](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/80) |
|  | [#31](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/31) Dedicated portal instance for Camara<br>Use the static sheet solution for now. Revist later if cost handling issue has a solution. |
|  | [#32](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/32) Review general principles doc<br>Request active participation in review for [#PR72](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/72). Ruben and Shilpa discussed the topic around Versioning and Ruben will udpate the doc with discussed details. |
|  | [#53](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/53) Consisent API onboarding process<br> Governance topic adressed in Steerco |
|  | [#57](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/57) <span class="s1">API proposal pipeline from API backlog to SteerCo approval</span><br>[#PR77](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/77) API Backlog Overview Doc. Governance topic adressed in Steerco|
|  | [#60](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/60) User consent management<br>Request active participation in review for [#PR68](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/68) |
|  | [#61](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/61) How to contribute test cases for APIs<br>Issue to remain open to gather feedback. |
|  | [#6](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/61)3 Multiple ref implementations<br>No new update |
|  | [#75](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/75) Timing rules for issues in commanalities<br>Proposal to be addressed in Steerco |
|  |  |
| Issues closed | [#31](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/31) |
| Any other topics | 1\. PR owners requested to use milestones so that reviewers can plan accordingly<br>2\. Suggestion from Kevin to checkout "Mermaid" for including diagrams in markdown documents instead of embedding them as images<br>[https://github.blog/2022-02-14-include-diagrams-markdown-files-mermaid/](https://github.blog/2022-02-14-include-diagrams-markdown-files-mermaid/ "https://github.blog/2022-02-14-include-diagrams-markdown-files-mermaid/")<br>3\. Tools/extensions used for creating markdown documents:\- Browser\, VSCode\, VScode \+ extension Unotes |

## AOB

1. Next commonalities meeting: October 19th 2022
2. Thank you!
