*Commonalities Meeting Minutes, 16th November 2022*

## Attendees

| Name | Company |
| --- | --- |
| Eric Murray | Vodafone (Meeting Chair) |
| Gareth Williams | GSMA |
| Jan Friman | Ericsson |
| Jesús Peña García-Oliva | Telefonica |
| Jose A Ordonez Lucena | Telefonica |
| Murat Karabulut | TMUS |
| Kevin Smith | Vodafone |
| Ludovic Robert | Orange |
| Rubén Barrado González | Telefonica |
| Petar Torre | Intel |
| Vaibhav Mehta | Nabstract |
| Dawid Wróblewski | Deutsche Telekom |
| Fabrizio Moggio | TIM |
| Ramesh Shanmugasundaram | Spry Fox Networks |

## Agenda

* **Review of open issues and PRs**
  * **Priority Issues**
    * Issue #104 / PR #96 Update API-design-guidelines.md
    * Issue #101 No personal information as common API design criteria
    * Issue #60 / PR #68 User consent documentation

  * **Issues looking to close**
    * Issue #53 Clear, consistent and transparent process for API onboarding and handling
    * Issue #57 API proposal pipeline: from API backlog to SteerCo approval
    * Issue #75 Timing rules for issues in Commonalities
    * Issue #87 Issues, branches, pull requests - cleaning up "Commonalities Working Group"

  * **Issues for discussion**
    * Issue #61 / PR #102 Concept on how to deliver test cases for contributed Camara APIs
    * Issue #99 Dealing with multiple API related artifacts of the same type and conformance to APIs
    * Issue #105 CAMARA API target pattern
    * Issue #100 The referred link seems not existed
    * Issue #31 Dedicated Portal Instance for CAMARA

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| Issue #104<br>PR #96 | Some discussion on relative merits of different cases, but agreement to keep proposal as is<br><br>**Recommended to be accepted next week if no further comments by end of 18th November 2022** |
| Issue #101 | Telefonica clarified:<br>* Proposal is linked to OAuth/OIDC/consent, but can be treated separately<br>* Anonymised identifiers can expire or be revoked<br>* A dedicated API could be provided to convert MSISDN or other PII to the anonymised identifier if the API caller had no other information on the end user<br>No objections in principle to the proposal raised<br><br>**Continue discussion within issue** |
| Issue #60<br>PR #68 | Issue recognised as being complex and more time required to review. If the proposal is accepted by Commonalities, it is understood that this decision will need to be approved by the Steering Committee, and a workplan agreed.<br><br>**Reviews of proposal and raising of any objections to be complete by all participants by end of December 2022** |
| Issue #53 | **Can be closed** |
| Issue #57 | **Awaiting feedback from Markus** |
| Issue #75 | **Jose to define next steps** |
| Issue #87 | **Can be closed** |
| Issue #31 | Decision is not to have a dedicated portal<br>**Jose to close** |
| Other open issues | Not treated |

## AOB

1. Next commonalities meeting: Wednesday Nov 30th 2022
2. Thank you!
