*Commonalities Meeting Minutes, 20th Apr 2023*

## Attendees

| Name | Company |
| ---- | ------- |
|  Patrice Conil|Orange   | 
|Jignesh Sorathia |Spry Fox Networks|
|Ramesh Shanmugasundaram | Spry Fox Networks|
| Jan Friman |	Ericsson|
| Rajat Kondoi |	Ericsson|
|Jose Antonio Ordonez Lucena| 	Telefonica|
|Eric Murray |	Vodafone|
|Toyeeb Rehman| GSMA|
| Murat Karabulut |TMUS|
| Rafal Artych | Deutsche Telekom |


## Agenda

* **Presentation of Spry Fox Networks - Reference NEF for CAMARA APIs (25 mins)**
* **PRs to be merged**:
  - **API guidelines to add subscription/notification/event**
  - **Github issue and pull request templates**
  - **Discriminator usage**
* **Go through existing issues (if time permits)**

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
|Presentation| The implementation of NEF functionalities for QoD service was presented by Jignesh. The presentation containing access procedure will be available in SupportingDocuments in Commonalities documentation folder|
|PR [#183](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/183)| Add section on Discriminator usage in API-new question added by Eric in Issue [#168](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/168) needs to be clarified | 
|PR [#174](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/174)| Github issue and pull request templates - can be merged |
|PR [#173](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/173)| API guidelines for subscription/notification/event new question by Eric needs to be clarified. The PR needs conflict resolution before merging| 
| Issue [#186](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/186) | Release branches protection. Who has required priviledges to change branch parameters in each subprojects?|
| Issue [#184](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/184) | OAS version. PR to be prepared.Possible justification for Issue [#170](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/170) |
| Issue [#178](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/178) | Multiple endpoints or multiple API within one API 'Family'? Different views in comments. More voices needed to give common recommendation. |
| Issue [#170](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/170) | Proposal to version guidelines doc. Author (Murthy) shall review comments |
| Issue [#168](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/168) | Proposal to use discriminator to simplify serialization/deserialization process. New question to be clarified |
| Issue [#164](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/164) | Direction to include all documentation in OAS file. Example of YAML file from subproject with linked images/diagrams would be helpful |
| Issue [#156](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/156) | Unified Notfication/Event management Added PR [#173](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/173). Discussions as a part of PR review ongoing |


## Issues that can be closed

[#163](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/163)

## PRs that can be merged

PR [#174](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/174) Proposed issue and pull request templates to be used in subprojects.

## AOB

Next meeting will take place on 4th of May.
