*Commonalities Meeting Minutes, 23rd Mar 2023*

## Attendees

| Name | Company |
| ---- | ------- |
| Dawid Wróblewski |  Deutsche Telekom | 
| Robert Ludovic|  Orange | 
|Tanja De Groot | Nokia |
|Ramesh Shanmugasundaram | Spry Fox Networks |
|Jesus Iglesias Maqueda | Telefonica |
|Jignesh Sorathia |Spry Fox Networks|
|Ruben Barrado Gonzalez |Telefonica|
|JOSE ANTONIO ORDOÑEZ LUCENA | Telefonica |
| Rafal Artych | Deutsche Telekom |
| Shilpa Padgaonkar | Deutsche Telekom |

## Agenda

* **Walkthrough of PR and Issue template proposal (25 mins)**
* **Conclusion of Snake-vs-Camel case discussion**
* **Short update on newly added issues**
* **Go through existing issues and PRs (if time permits)**

## Discussion
* Walkthrough of PR and Issue template proposal done by Rafal. Members are requested to review the PR.
* camelCase will be accepted and implemented as the majority decision. 

| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| Issue [#172](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/172) | Proposal to add sample data and error doc to supporting documents folder. Ruben will update the doc to only include Camara relevant items|
| Issue [#170](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/170) | Proposal to version guidelines doc. Murthy can provide more details here if he is present in the next call |
| Issue [#168](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/168) | Proposal to use discriminator to simplify serialization/deserialization process. Patrice will create a PR for guidelines doc |
| Issue [#164](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/164) | Telefonica has nominated to create a PR for this |
| Issue [#163](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/163) | Added PR [#174](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/174) Create issue and pr templates, Members asked to review PR |
| Issue [#157](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/157) | Result of discussion poll available. Issue can be closed. |
| Issue [#156](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/156) | Unified Notfication/Event management Added PR [#173](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/173). Discussions as a part of PR review ongoing |
| Issue [#142](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/142) PR [#166](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/166) | PR [#166](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/166) reviewed. Can be closed |
| Issue [#61](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/61) PR [#148](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/148) | Discussion concluded. DT to contribute the artefacts EOW in QoD and will give a walkthrough in the next commonalities call |
| Issue [#108](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/108) PR [#120](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/120) | Consolidation work of glossary to start after 15th March.  |

## Issues that can be closed

[#157](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/157) [#142](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/142)

## PRs that can be merged

[#166](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/166) clarifying the pagination example in Design Guidelines

## AOB

* commonalities meeting on April 06, 2023 cancelled due to Easter holidays. Next meeting will take place on 20th April.
