# MOM-2022-11-30

*Commonalities Meeting Minutes, 30th November 2022*

## Attendees

| Name | Company |
| ---- | ------- |
| Eric Murray | Vodafone |
| Gareth Williams | GSMA |
| Jan Friman | Ericsson |
| Tom van Pelt | GSMA |
| Lyle Bertz | TMUS |
| Murat Karabulut | TMUS |
| Kevin Smith | Vodafone |
| Ludovic Robert | Orange |
| Miguel Garcia | Ericsson |
| Sylvain Morel | Orange |
| Rubén Barrado González | Telefonica |
| Petar Torre | Intel |
| Milan M Lalovic | BT |
| Dawid Wróblewski | Deutsche Telekom |
| Fabrizio Moggio | TIM |
| Ramesh Shanmugasundaram | Spry Fox Networks |

## Agenda

* **Review of open issues and PRs**
    * **Priority Issues**
        * Issue #101 No personal information as common API design criteria
        * Issue #60 / PR #68 User consent documentation
        * Issue #105 CAMARA API target pattern
    * **Issues looking to close**
        * Issue #75 Timing rules for issues in Commonalities
    * **Issues for discussion**
        * Issue #61 / PR #102 Concept on how to deliver test cases for contributed Camara APIs
        * Issue #99 Dealing with multiple API related artifacts of the same type and conformance to APIs
    * **Issues closed**
        * Issue #104 #100

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| Issue #101 | <ul><li>Reminder to Commonalities WG members about reviewing this issue.</li><li>Next discussion planned for upcoming commonalities sync call</li><li>Participants shares common view for some API consumption scenarios where PI can be passed (e.g. msisdn, ip, etc.), i.e. when app “owns” this info</li></ul> |
| Issue #60<br>PR #68 | Issue recognised as being complex and more time required to review. If the proposal is accepted by Commonalities, it is understood that this decision will need to be approved by the Steering Committee, and a workplan agreed.<ul><li>Discussion postponed for next commonalities call</li><li>Telefonica plans to have Internal discussion about the topic</li><li>Orange - awaits comments from internal teams</li></ul>**Reviews of proposal and raising of any objections to be complete by all participants by end of December 2022** |
| Issue #105 | <ul><li>DT proposal around MC was presented as a flexible solution for handling resource server (protected resource)</li><li>It was suggested to keep Identity APIs in a way they are consumed today (on /userInfo)</li><li>On the other hand API design pattern should be as simple as possible and reflect the actual use case flow, i.e. for APIs that does not involve user info or user action, we can use single endpoint, e.g. QoD?</li><li>Simplify process</li><li>Topic remains open – it was suggested to align with Mobile Identity API owners about the topic – get internal feedback and proceed with discussion next meetings or dedicated sessions.</li><li>It was mentioned that Verifiable credentials concept ([https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/ "https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/")) might be a changer to the approach – dedicated session might be required to explain this concept </li></ul> |

## AOB

1. Next commonalities meeting: Wednesday Dec 14th 2022
2. Thank you!
