# Commonalities meeting

#### *4th of May 2022*

## Attendees

* De Groot, Tanja, Nokia
* Mark Cornall, GSMA
* Ruben BARRADO GONZALEZ, Telefónica
* JOSE ANTONIO ORDOÑEZ LUCENA, Telefónica
* MOREL Sylvain, Orange
* Jan Friman, Ericsson
* Miguel Garcia A, Ericsson
* Kevin Smith, Vodafone
* Eric Murray, Vodafone
* Ivan Nieto, Vodafone
* MOHAJERI, SHAHRAM, AT&T
* Padgaonkar, Shilpa, DT
* Sozans, Mariusz, DT

## Agenda

* Recap/updates in repository
* Contributions:
    * current issues
    * Final reviews and feedbacks on the submitted documents
    * Updates on the status of deliverables
    * other issues
* Any other open points

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| **Recent updates & recap** |  |
|  | Repository structure:<br>\* Commonalities are under <i>**WorkingGroups**</i> repo: [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities)<br>\* Please use [***GitHub issues***](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Acommonalities) as a mean to review or verify the status of each deliverable. |
|  | **CHANGE in the folder structure of** [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities/documentation](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities/documentation):<br>\* Core documents accepted by internal reviewers are under the <b>*Deliverables*</b> directory<br>\* Documents are available for review under the <b>*Working*</b> directory<br>\* as requested in [issue #35](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/35)<br>\* added [milestone #2](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/milestone/1) and [Commonalities Core Documentation](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/projects) project for better transparency<br>**Q1: How to document the process?**<br>**\-  as a *new document [unanimously agreed within call]***<br>*\- \> the intention is that this process would be applicable to the whole Camara project*<br>*\- a link can be provided inside the General Principles document* |
|  | Every new document's review process will have a dedicated GitHub issue:<br>\* Every *review issue* will be open at least for a duration of **4 weeks**.<br>\* *If* there are no further comments during that period we consider the document as <b>*final*</b> and <b>*accepted*</b> by the working group. |
| **Current issues** |  |
|  | [Issue #31: Dedicated Portal Instance for CAMARA](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/31):<br>Provide a [dedicated portal instance](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/API%20Portal%20Capabilities.pdf): a single, unified portal instance for the entire project, hosting the different APIs developed and with tools allowing for their management.<br>\* see the new [criteria requirements proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Working/API%20development%20portal%20requirements)<br>\* **TODO:** new issue for the requirements, to be check also with TEF<br>\* **TODO**: Jose -  double-check ops and maintenance <br>**\- Q2: Close the issue? <br> Workgroup decision: Not yet, please update/proceed inside Github issue \#31**<br> |
|  |  |
| *issue to be closed* | [Issue #25: API versioning](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/25):<br>\* Semantic Versioning 2.0.0 is proposed to be followed<br>\* Part of General principles - to be closed and reviewed there<br>**Q3: OK to close and move discussion to General Principles? Yes** ***[unanimously agreed within call]*** |
| *issue to be closed* | [Reference Architectures](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/13) WG #13<br>**Q4: OK to close? [any objections] => no objections *[unanimously agreed within call]***<br>\- this was an initial contribution to the workgroup<br>\- Can possibly be re\-opened in the future |
| *issue to be closed soon* | [E/// proposal to use GPSI as UE identifier](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/36) WG issue #4<br>\* proposal's presentation has been uploaded to:<br> [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/UE%20identifiers.pptx](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/UE%20identifiers.pptx)<br>\* The proposal is to identify UEs primarily with GPSI (in any existing format either MSISDN or ext identifier) and optionally with UE IP or MAC<br>**Q5: how do we move on?**<br>\- Separate document \(or point to already provided supporting documentation\) \- no\, see also comment in GitHub issue<br>**\- include in Authentication concept to narrow the number of documents** *[unanimously agreed within call]* |
|  |  |
| **Contributions in review** | [MILESTONE #2] |
| *review to be closed* | [API Readiness](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Working/API-Readiness-Checklist.md) criteria checklist (DT) - draft uploaded by DT on Jan 26, [GitHub issue](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/35) #5<br>\* document to be reviewed until the next Commonalities meeting<br>\* **Q6: include references for security & privacy principles?**<br>\- difference between EU/ other countries \- problem with privacy \- to be verified and commented on<br>  **\- security to be included\, but to be marked as not mandatory** \- implementation may be needed to verify all boundary aspects /etc\.<br>  - simple/general principles for security to be mandatory, the rest depends on implementation<br>\* closing review: we will try to close the review during the next commonalities meeting |
| *review to be closed* | API exposure reference solution (TEF) - document for review (Feb 4), [GitHub issue](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/41) #1<br>\* an auxiliary Camara guideline: it is a TEF proposal for partners interested in examples of exposing with CAPIF<br>\* update: source code published from research project<br>\* action points: reformat to MD and fill in gaps in CAPIF definition - exhaustive analysis, to provide more details<br>\* reference solution for exposure functions and validation<br>\* last weeks for comments |
| *review to be closed* | Authentication and Authorization concept<br>\* [issue #27 has been created](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/27) on Mar 9 for review, please do not hesitate to post comments and reviews!<br>\* **check** with **Q5**: UE identification to be added - TBD<br>\* GH issue comments: link to exposure doc - good idea + glossary<br>\* new issue for VF comment<br>TODO: close this document <br>**Q7: do you agree to close this issue and continue in separate with UEId addendum? Yes *[no objections]*** |
| *review in progress* | [General principles doc](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/29)<br>\* [issue #32](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/32) created on 4/4 for review purposes<br>\* ToC: [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/General-principles-doc.md](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/General-principles-doc.md)<br>\* please consider proposals from [Issue #25: API versioning](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/25)<br>\* **check** with **Q3 - API versioning included**<br>**\*** API naming standard to be included |
|  |  |
| **Contributions in development** |  |
|  | [Testing principles doc](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/28) #8<br>draft ready, 2nd round of internal review (DT). |
|  | [Document common vocabulary and terminologies across API families => Standard resources description](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/24) WG#10<br>Proposal to assign this issue as a common working group task -> open GLOSSARY |
|  | [Issue #26: Reference NEF](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/26):<br>For contributing code we need a reference NEF on which the code can be based.<br>\- To be discussed in the next meeting |
|  |  |
| **Other issues** |  |
|  | [E/// authorization scope proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/37) WG #3<br>Authorization scope proposal. Possibly synergy with the auth. concept (WG #27). |
|  | [Issue #33: TMF mapping](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/33):<br>\* Orange contribution for Camara API linked to TMF API<br>\* contribution prepared by Ludovic Robert to be presented it in detail next month |
|  | [Issue #36: Markdown instead of PDF](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/36)<br>\* to be verified with authors |
|  |  |

## AOB

1. Next commonalities meeting: May 18th.
