# Commonalities meeting

#### *13 July 2022*

## Attendees

| \_\_\_ |
| --- |
| Mark Cornall, GSMA |
| Jignesh Sorathia, Spryfoxnetworks  |
| Miguel Garcia, Ericsson |
| Eric Murray, Vodafone |
| Jan Friman, Ericsson |
| Jarząb Marcin, DT |

## Agenda

* Recap/updates in repository
* Contributions:
    * current issues
    * reviews and feedbacks on the submitted documents
    * Updates on the status of other contributions
* Any other open points

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| **Recent updates & recap** |  |
|  | Repository structure:<br>\* Commonalities are under <i>**WorkingGroups**</i> repo: [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities)<br>\* Please use [***GitHub issues***](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Acommonalities) as a mean to review or verify the status of each deliverable. |
|  | \* [milestone #2](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/milestone/1) and [Commonalities Core Documentation](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/projects) project added to repository for better transparency |
|  | \* Every new document's review process will have a dedicated GitHub issue<br>\* *If* there are no further comments during that period we consider the document as <b>*final*</b> and <b>*accepted*</b> by the working group. |
| *recently closed* | [Issue #36: Markdown instead of PDF](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/36)<br>\* MD is recommended for working with GitHub through pull requests and for version comparison<br>\* verified with authors - OK, ongoing effort |
|  | \* [issue #37](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/37) for portal requirements: file with the [criteria requirements' proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Working/API%20development%20portal%20requirements.md) **-> see issue #31** |
|  |  |
| **Current issues** |  |
|  | [Issue #31: Dedicated Portal Instance for CAMARA](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/31):<br>Provide a [dedicated portal instance](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/API%20Portal%20Capabilities.pdf): a single, unified portal instance for the entire project, hosting the different APIs developed and with tools allowing for their management.<br>**\* Cost/budget check**<br> **TEF** --> Azure costs 10-12 Euro/month for instance in prod, administration effort/work - ?<br> **Postman**/oth --> SaaS cost only, but to be verified (open source discounts/partnership)<br> *There are other components such as : IDM, CI/CD, Exposure GW which also should be analyzed.*<br>**\* consider other features and their importance (testing?)**<br>**\* please input points inside Github issue #31** |
|  | **Repo structure of** [Commonalities/documentation](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/main/Commonalities/documentation) - [issue #35](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/35):<br>\* [Steering Committee voted to use branches instead of different subdirectories](https://github.com/camaraproject/Governance/issues/47).<br>\* A new section will be added to [ProjectStructureAndRoles.md in Governance's repo](https://github.com/camaraproject/Governance/blob/main/ProjectStructureAndRoles.md) with a description how branches shall be used to reflect the status of an artefact.<br>\* A new how-to document on Github branches is prepared to aid Camara participants - draft uploaded to newly created branch [WIP](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/WIP/Commonalities/documentation/Working). |
|  | [Issue #33: TMF mapping](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/33): <br>\* Orange contribution for Camara API linked to TMF API: [presentation link](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Contributions/May%2018th%20Camara%20meeting%20v2.pptx)<br>\* contribution prepared by Ludovic Robert presented during last meeting |
|  |  |
| **Contributions in review** | [MILESTONE #2] |
| *in progress* | [General principles for API Design doc](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/29)<br>\* [issue #32](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/32) created on 4/4 for review purposes<br>\* ToC:<br> [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/General-principles-doc.md](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/Deliverables/General-principles-doc.md)<br>\* Added new subchapters proposals for Camara-specific aspects to be reflected in General principles as pull request #41:<br>\* First chapters in markdown:<br>\- API naming convention for Camara \- draft uploaded to [***WIP branch***](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/WIP/Commonalities/documentation/Working)<br>\- Versioning \- draft uploaded to <b>*WIP:*</b><br>    \* Agreement on major version<br>    \* Version change history<br>    \* Repository tagging and releases<br>    -> see [Governance issue #43](https://github.com/camaraproject/Governance/issues/43) (a release shall change the version in the API definition and documentation files in the main branch)<br>**\* UPDATE (13.07): DT reviewed document (improvements & sugestions to be introduced by owner)** |
| *in progress* | API exposure reference solution (TEF) - [GitHub issue](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/41) #1<br>\* auxiliary guideline: TEF proposal for partners interested in examples of gateway exposure with CAPIF<br>\* to be updated: source code published from research project<br>\* action points: reformat to MD and fill in gaps in CAPIF definition - exhaustive analysis, to provide more details |
|  |  |
| **Contributions in development** |  |
|  | [Issue #26: Reference NEF](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/26):<br>We need a reference NEF on which the code can be based - investigating with Nokia<br>\* No fully-fledged open source NEFs found<br>\* Nokia has an already deployed a 5G core testbed on AWS, developers can get free access to Nokia APIs there<br>\* Scenarios will be prepared with Nokia to validate API testing with the Nokia NEF product with simulators for the underlying 5G Core and other Network Functions<br>\* initially meant exclusively for Camara APIs development/testing<br>**\* UPDATE (13.07): Provided to DT for evaluation and limited number of users (on-going effort)** |
|  | [Testing principles doc](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/28) #8<br>first draft uploaded to [***WIP branch***](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/tree/WIP/Commonalities/documentation/Working) |
|  | [Document common vocabulary and terminologies across API families => Standard resources description](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/24) WG#10<br>Proposal to assign this issue as a common working group task -> open GLOSSARY<br>\* waiting for your contribution :)<br><br>**\* UPDATE (13.07)** Version of DOC with pull request : [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/52](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/52) |
|  | [E/// proposal to use GPSI as UE identifier](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/36) #4<br>\* proposal's presentation has been uploaded<br>\* The proposal is to identify UEs primarily with GPSI (in any existing format either MSISDN or ext identifier) and optionally with UE IP or MAC<br>**\- add to Authentication and authorization document to limit number of papers** *[as agreed in last call]*<br>\* document in progress<br><br>**\* UPDATE (13.07): Based on "Commonalities AuthN/AuthZ" document, new version prepared with pull request #51** [https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/51](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/51) |
|  | [E/// authorization scope proposal](https://github.com/camaraproject/rep_main/issues/37) WG #3<br>Authorization scope proposal. Possibly synergy with the auth. concept (WG #27), document to be drafted. |
|  |  |

## AOB

1. Next commonalities meeting: July 27th - new series' invitation will arrive (vacation period).
2. Thank you!
