# MOM-2023-26-01

*26th January 2023*

## Attendees

| \_\_\_ |
| --- |
|Eric Murray	Vodafone|
|Kevin Smith	Vodafone|
|Jan Friman	Ericsson|
|Jesus Pena Garcia-Oliva	Telefonica|
|Jose Luis Urien Pinedo	Telefonica|
|Diego Gonzalez Martinez	Telefonica|
|Karabulut Murat	TMUS|
|Jignesh Sorathia Spry Fox Networks |
|Ruben Barrado Gonzalez	Telefonica|
|Conil Patrice	Orange|
|Ramesh Shanmugasundaram,	Spry Fox Networks|
|Toyeeb Rehman	GSMA |
|Adeeb Tahir  |
|Ansh Chaudhary |
|Jörg Steinbeck	DT |
|Martin Kurze	DT |
|Rafal Artych	DT |
|Shilpa Padgaonkar DT |

## Agenda

* Use of discussion boards
* Nokia lab available now for Camara members
* Other issues
* Presentation on [Consent Management and its vocabulary](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/SupportingDocuments/HyperConsents_Language_for_Camara.pdf)

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| **Recent updates & recap** |  |
|  | \* A how-to document for using Nokia OpenLab has been added here [Nokia_Open_APIs_Lab_NEF_access](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/SupportingDocuments/Nokia_Open_APIs_Lab_NEF_access.md) |
| **Current issues** |  |
|  | [#60](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/60) Consent Management<br><br>\*New subproject to start soon.<br>\*Presentation on consent vocabulary part of the agenda today |
|  | [#61](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/61) Contribution of tests to Camara. |
|  | [#99](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/99) Murat and Lyle will present the topic on 8th Feb |
|  | [#105](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/105) API target pattern discussion. |
|  | [#118](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/118) Release management and versioning guidelines [#PR123](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/77) Document under review. Kindly join the review and provide feedback. |
|  | [#60](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/60) User consent management<br><br>Request active participation in review for [#PR68](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/68) |

## AOB

1. Next commonalities meeting: February 8th 2022 (Regular 9thFeb meeting overlaps with Steerco call)
2. Thank you!
