*Commonalities Meeting Minutes, 23rd Feb 2023*

## Attendees

| Name | Company |
| ---- | ------- |
|Eric Murray | Vodafone |
|Ruben Barrado Gonzalez | Telefonica |
|Jose Antonio Ordonez Lucena | Telefonica |
|Jan Friman | Ericsson |
|Robert Ludovic | Orange | 
|Conil Patrice | Orange | 
|Murat Karabulut| TMUS |
|Ramesh Shanmugasundaram |Spry Fox Networks |
|Rafal Artych | DT |


## Agenda

* **Review of open issues and PRs**

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| Issue [#157](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/157) | The issue is related to section [4.2 of API Design Guidelines](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/API-design-guidelines.md#42-inputoutput-resource-definition) - currently snake_case is required for parameter names. Author argued that state of the art in telecom industry is camelCase notation and presented the survey of used parameter naming in current CAMARA subproject APIs. No agreement was reached to change the guidelines. Since the issue was raised the same day more comments on issue are expected (all paricipants) and the indication of formal procedure to resolve the issue (DT)|
| Issue [#156](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/156) | Proposal to have unified approach to Notfication/Event management in API Design Guidelines - Since the issue was raised the same day more feedback on issue is expected (all paricipants)|
| Issue [#151](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/151) | Schemas in error responses - Approach no 1 is preferred - relevant PR should be prepared|
| Issue [#142](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/142) | Pagination - the PR clarifying the example in Design Guidelines needs to be prepared|
| Issue [#124](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/124) | Headers - the Design Guidelines should be updated with clarification how headers should be treated in API specifications (Vodafone)|
| Issue [#118](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/118) PR [#123](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/123) | Release guidelines document - waiting for the finalization of PR review process |
| Issue [#61](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/61) PR [#148](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/148) | Karate vs Cucumber test framework - more comments and PR reviews are expected |
| Issue [#60](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/60) | New sub project created - the issue can be closed |
| PR [#120](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/120) | Works on glossary terms are on-going in subprojects  |

## Issues that can be closed
 Issue [#60](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/60) - How to address user consent for Camara APIs 

## PRs that can be merged


## AOB

1. Wishing CAMARA success during MWC2023
2. CAMARA meet&greet event - Thursday 2nd March 11:00 â€“ 12:30 MWC Room CC7 1.B
