# MOM-2022-12-14

*Commonalities Meeting Minutes, 14th December 2022*

## Attendees

| Name | Company |
| ---- | ------- |
| Eric Murray | Vodafone |
| Gareth Williams | GSMA |
| Jan Friman | Ericsson |
| Conil Patrice | Orange |
| Guim Francesc | Intel |
| Murat Karabulut | TMUS |
| Kevin Smith | Vodafone |
| José Antonio Ordoñez-Lucena | Telefonica |
| Jose Luis Urien Pinedo | Telefonica |
| Sylvain Morel | Orange |
| Rubén Barrado González | Telefonica |
| Diego Gonzalez Martinez | Telefonica |
| Robert Ludovic | Orange |
| Shilpa padgaonkar | Deutsche Telekom |

## Agenda

* **Review of open issues and PRs**
    * **Priority Issues**
        * Issue #101 No personal information as common API design criteria
        * Issue #60 User consent
* **Poll created to decide the day/time for commonalities call next year** 
* **New meeting series (biweekly)for next year (based on poll) to be sent by Shilpa**
* **Request in steering to create new subproject for Identity&Consent**

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| Issue #101 | General consesus that an anonymous identifier should be a preferred choice instead of using privacy critical identifiers like MSISDNs. Some large B2B customers will continue using MSISDN as before.<br>The current approved APIs allow use of GPSI ext. identifier. But there could be operators who might not support this identifier format and would like to use a more general identifier instead.<br>Participants will propose options on how a more generic identifier can be added to the requests. |
| Issue #60<br>PR #68 | <ul><li>Following action points were created:<ul><li>ActionItem for TEF: Clarify somewhere in the document (footnote, annex, etc.) that the fact an app violates user consent has legal implications, and that these implications need to be captured in the contractual relationship between ASP and operator (the contract need to be signed before app on-boarding and purpose registration). This is a recommendation from E///</li><li>ActionItem for All (TEF, Orange, DT, E///): Asesss feasibility to "trigger a direct interaction between the network operator and the end-users to capture consent during user application journey" , following recommendations from Orange, E/// and DT.</li><li>ActionItem for TEF + Interested participants: Study tenets captured in  [https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/](https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/ "https://www.w3.org/community/dpvcg/"), as a reference for translating T&C into machine-readable vocabulary, already defined purposes. This is a recommendations from DT.</li><li>ActionItem for E///: Send TEF further information on 3GPP work on user consent (WG + work/study item).</li><li>ActionItem for DT: Make a proposal in Steering call to start a new subproject for Identity&Consent. This topic is too complex to be sorted as one of the many discussion points in Commonalities WG. This subproject will also deliver APIs for consent management. Until this new subproject is created, work will continue in the existing issue and PR.</li></ul></li></ul> |

## AOB

1. Thank you everyone for participating in the working group and for making valuable contributions. Looking forward to continue this next year.
2. Based on the poll, first call next year will be on : Thursday Jan 12th 2023 4pm-5pm CET. 
3. Thank you!
