*Commonalities Meeting Minutes, 8th Feb 2023*

## Attendees

| Name | Company |
| ---- | ------- |
| Eric Murray | Vodafone |
| Ruben Barrado Gonzalez | Telefonica |
| Jose Antonio Ordonez Lucena | Telefonica |
| Jan Friman | Ericsson |
| Robert Ludovic | Orange |
| Patrice Conil | Orange |
| Jesus Pena Garcia Oliva | Telefónica |
| Dawid Wróblewski | Deutsche Telekom |
| Rafal Artych | Deutsche Telekom |
| Shilpa Padgaonkar | Deutsche Telekom |

## Agenda

* **Walkthrough of release management PR**
* **Short discussion on way forward for snake vs camel case discussion**
* **Short update on newly added issues**
* **Go through existing issues and PRs (if time permits)**

## Discussion

| Agenda Item | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| Issue [#164](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/164) | Proposal to make the API spec file the single source of truth & avoid redundancy by adding duplicate information in API documentation. Two subprojects are asked to nominate themselves to showcase the extension of their spec files in this direction |
| Issue [#163](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/163) | PR will be added to contribute issue and PR templates for Camara |
| Issue [#157](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/157) | The issue is related to section [4.2 of API Design Guidelines](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/blob/main/Commonalities/documentation/API-design-guidelines.md#42-inputoutput-resource-definition) TEF will create a poll on the commonalities discussion board to get transparency on the majority vote for snake vs camel case |
| Issue [#156](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/156) | PR to update the API guidelines doc will be created. |
| Issue [#151](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/151) | Issue closed |
| Issue [#142](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/142)  PR [#166](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/166)| PR [#166](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/166) clarifying the pagination example in Design Guidelines is now added. Request participants to review |
| Issue [#124](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/124) PR [#161](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/161)| Header related proposal updated in the guideline doc, PR [#161](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/161) merged and the issue is now closed. |
| Issue [#118](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/118) PR [#123](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/123) | Release guidelines document - No major concerns noted. The only discussion point was if main branch should be considered as the latest or not. But when agreed on this format, subprojects are ok to follow this approach. On approvals, PR can be merged. |
| Issue [#61](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/61) PR [#148](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/148) | Karate vs Cucumber test framework - more comments and PR reviews are requested |
| Issue [#60](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/60) PR [#68](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/68) | New subproject created - the issue & PR [#68](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/68) closed |
| Issue [#108](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/108) PR [#120](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/120) | Consolidation work of glossary to start after 15th March |

## Issues that can be closed

[#118](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/118)

## PRs that can be merged

[#123](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/123)

## AOB

* Next commonalities meeting: February 23rd, 2023
